# What is Parse?

Parse is a place where anyone can shares short stories, intentional moments, and thoughts.

## Core Concepts

### Person

Parse intentionally models its accounts as people, referred to as a `Person` entity. Parse isn't for brands or bots.

A person has an `Account` entity, which contains data about how they log into Parse (and potentially other settings as Parse grows). People log into Parse with passkeys. Parse doesn't support username/password or third-party login intentionally.

A person can follow or be followed by other people.

### Posts

A `Post` entity on Parse is a short text blurb that's 100 words or less. Parse is anchored around sharing short stories and thoughts, but a post can really be any moment one might want to share.

A post is authored by a person.

A post has a title, a creation date, and optionally a topic. More on topics later.

Posts can be edited. A post contains a last modified date if it's edited.

Posts can be deleted. A delete is permanent.

Posts start as drafts. Once published, they're no longer drafts.

Posts have three visibility levels:
- Public: any person on parse can see the post
- Followers only: only followers of the post's author can see the post
- Private: only the author can see the post

### Topics

Topics can be auto-suggested based on the post's content. Topics are normalized across posts, so anyone interested in hiking, for example, can find other posts about hiking. A post can only have one topic - this is by design; it's intended to orient a post around a singular focus. Note that a topic _is_ optional - posts don't have to conform to a specific topic if their content broadly spans.


## Interaction Model

### Authentication and User Context

Parse can be used as a view-only experience without an account. The feed will display public posts only. Logging in allows people to create new posts and view their customized feed.

### The Feed

The feed contains posts ordered by creation date, newest first. When authenticated, the feed can show either posts from people the authenticated person follows _or_ all public posts on Parse.

### The Composer

The composer is where posts are created. The canvas is the central element. A title is required, but it can be generated by the post's content. A topic can also be added to the post optionally. A post can either be published or saved as a draft.

### The Profile

Every person on Parse has a profile. The profile shows all their posts.